# Commented & linted version of Vishne et al (2021) code

Links to relevant papers: 

Great introduction to linear models of SMS, and explanation of relevant concepts and equations:  
- Jacoby, N., and Repp, B.H. (2012). _A general linear framework for the comparison and evaluation of models of sensorimotor synchronization_. Biol. Cybern. 106, 135–154.  

<br>  

Series of papers related to bGLS estimation: 

- Repp, B.H., Keller, P.E., and Jacoby, N. (2012). _Quantifying phase correction in sensorimotor synchronization: Empirical comparison of three paradigms_. Acta Psychol. (Amst). 139, 281–290.  

- Jacoby, N., Tishby, N., Repp, B.H., Ahissar, M., and Keller, P.E. (2015). _Parameter Estimation of Linear Sensorimotor Synchronization Models: Phase Correction, Period Correction, and Ensemble Synchronization_. Timing Time Percept. 3, 52–87.  

- Jacoby, N., Keller, P.E., Repp, B.H., Ahissar, M., and Tishby, N. (2015). _Lower Bound on the Accuracy of Parameter Estimation Methods for Linear Sensorimotor Synchronization Models_. Timing Time Percept. 3, 32–51.  

<br>  

Adding prediction to the model (works on tempo-changing sequences):  
- Harry, B., and Keller, P.E. (2019). _Tutorial and simulations with ADAM: an adaptation and anticipation model of sensorimotor synchronization_. Biol. Cybern. 113, 397–421.  

<br>  

Old paper on estimating timekeeper vs. motor variance:  

- Vorberg, D., and Wing, A. (1996). _Chapter 4 Modeling variability and dependence in timing_. Handb. Percept. Action 2, 181–262.




# TappingPaper
Code for Vishne, Gal, et al. "Slow update of internal representations impedes synchronization in autism." Nature Communications (2021).
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.09.28.316828v1 (this is a link to the biorxiv, will be updated once the paper is published)


raw_data.mat includes:
1) tapping_data structure with asynchronies (e), inter-tap-intervals (r) and inter-stimulus-intervals (s) for all subjects, conditions and repetitions. Each array is 109 (n_subjects) x 6 (n_conditions) x 2 (n_repetitions).
2) subject_info table with demographics and other important info about the subjects - group, gender, age, reading skills etc.
3) aq_data - aq50 answers of a subset of the subjects (reverse coding questions already flipped)


main_scripts includes:
1) analysis_data.m - takes raw_data as input and generates ALL data for the paper, supplementary etc.
2) analysis_stats.m - statistics throughout the paper using the data generated by analysis_data.m & raw_data.mat
3) create_figures.m - create all figures in the paper (except the schematic illustrations of the model created using illustrator) - uses the data generated by analysis_data.m & raw_data.mat

Functions used by the 3 scripts are under the functions folder (model fitting, graphics, generating summary tables of statistics etc).

For model fitting functions see also: http://www.norijacoby.com/bgls.htm

The figures use these two handy functions (included in the reporistory):
> 1) Pekka Kumpulainen (2021). tight_subplot(Nh, Nw, gap, marg_h, marg_w) (https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/27991-tight_subplot-nh-nw-gap-marg_h-marg_w), MATLAB Central File Exchange. Retrieved March 6, 2021.
> 2) Ben Barrowes (2021). suplabel (https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/7772-suplabel), MATLAB Central File Exchange. Retrieved March 6, 2021.
